A Johannesburg Water team was on Wednesday inspecting the sewer line along Fuscia Road in Klipspruit West as they help in the search for a  five-year-old boy who fell  into a manhole while playing with friends in Soweto  10 days ago. Khayalethu Magadla — who would have celebrated his sixth birthday a week later — plunged into an uncovered manhole at a popular park in Mtambo Street in Dlamini. The search and rescue operation  started with the team excavating the embankment at the old landfill site, about eight metres above the manhole, to expose the pipe and drill to insert a camera. “This exercise will encompass the team walking from manhole to manhole  up to the split chambers leading to the JW wastewater treatment works. The distance between where the search will  start today [Wednesday] and the split chambers is about  four kilometres,” said Johannesburg Water spokesperson Seipati Nyawuza. Johannesburg Water has pleaded with the community for support, understanding and patience as the team focuses on the search and recovery of the body of the missing boy. “We plead that the family be allowed space to get through this terrible ordeal,” Nyawuza  said. Khayalethu and friends were playing soccer  when he apparently fell into the  manhole. Police divers, municipal sewerage engineers and firefighters have been searching the waste water system with specialised equipment, so far in vain. Robert Mulaudzi, spokesperson for the city’s emergency management services, said the narrow infrastructure of the manholes was a challenge for rescuers. Visibility had also been a challenge. The sewer system extends about 20km and flows from Meadowlands to the Olifantsvlei purification plant. The manholes are 1.8m deep and 1.2m in diameter and the wastewater in the pipes flows at up to 11km/h, presenting a challenge for divers. Higher than normal water levels, due to rain, have  also been a factor. Mulaudzi  said last week the chances of finding the boy alive were slim and the operation had  been declared a search and recovery. TimesLIVE 