Former EFF secretary-general Godrich Gardee has shared how sad Father’s Day was this year  as he spent it without his daughter Hillary. On Sunday Gardee took to social media to grieve and share how it felt  to spend the day without his daughter. The body of  28-year-old Hillary was found near   Mbombela, Mpumalanga, last month after she was reported missing. Gardee shared that he visited Hillary’s grave and laid a wreath as he remembered her. He also accused the  police of slow progress in solving the case. “Father’s Day 2022. Instead of receiving her call and text, as it would always be, we laid a wreath and she is now a number 444 #RIPHillaryGardee. Police service take note that not so far a distance, we will talk about your mediocrity,” Gardee said. He said the day was a reminder  he was “broken and pained”. “We are broken and pained fathers. There is no happy Father’s Day as long as the police service does what they do to grieving families, pussy footing, abetting crimes committed by father figures. I hope to be alive to take SA into confidence soon,” he said. Gardee said Hillary’s missing person post was a reminder of what father figures can do to children, women and girl children. “This picture is a reminder of what father figures can do to children, women and girl children. The police service just adds salt and pepper to a deep, painful wound. We are fathers who are not only victims of crime, but also victims of the police service, like all other crime victims. “At the rate of  mediocrity we see in the police service, we are  heading to Senzo Meyiwa 2 and many other episodes and seasons for many grieving families and victims of crime across the country. There is no hope the police service will ever improve with the ANC in office.” Trial postponed The trial into the rape, kidnapping and murder of Hillary was postponed to July 22 earlier this month  to allow for further investigations. Sipho Mkhatshwa, Philemon Lukhele and Albert Gama are accused of killing Hillary and are in custody until their next court appearance. Sunday Times reported  the defence team for two of the accused plans to poke holes in the state’s case. A tracking report for the vehicle the state said was used to transport Gardee’s body from the guest house where she was allegedly held captive, possibly raped and murdered, could paint a different picture. The report, seen by Sunday Times, does not place the vehicle anywhere near the scene where Gardee’s body was found five days after she was reported missing. 