The National Joint Operational and Intelligence Structure (NatJoints) has warned residents  there will be limited access in areas around the Sandton Convention Centre from Wednesday evening to Thursday night for the fourth SA Investment Conference. Motorists have been advised to use alternative routes as there will be temporary road closures affecting  West Street, Maude Street, 5th Street and Alice Lane. “NatJoints is satisfied with the safety and security measures  put in place to ensure the success of the fourth SA Investment Conference taking place at the Sandton Convention Centre in Johannesburg on  March 24,” said NatJoints spokesperson Lt-Col Robert Netshiunda. Netshiunda said the NatJoints — which comprises government departments including  disciplines within the police service, the military, intelligence co-ordinating committee, Johannesburg metro police,  Gauteng traffic police  and other law enforcement agencies — have worked closely with the department of trade, industry and competition to ensure  delegates and all investors forming part of the conference are safe and feel safe during the event. “Only people with valid accreditation will be allowed to enter the restricted areas in and around the conference venue. Law enforcement agencies will be out to ensure there is calm and stability for the duration of the event. “Two speaker’s corners have been reserved for those who would want to air their grievances.” Netshiunda said these are at the library parking situated on the corner of West and Maude streets and on the corner of West Street and Fredman Drive. “All protest actions must be within the prescripts of the law and no lawlessness will be tolerated,” he said. In 2018 President Cyril Ramaphosa  committed to raising  more than R1.2-trillion worth of investments over five years. He has previously hosted three annual Investment Conferences at which he set out the policy context and reforms, and the private sector provided feedback and made pledges to invest. Pledges received in the first three investment conferences amounted to roughly 64% of the five-year target. At the third Investment Conference pledges of about R774bn  were made. Last month trade, industry and competition minister Ebrahim Patel said  of the 152 investment announcements made previously, 45 projects have  been completed. A further 57  are  under construction. “Firms  which have completed their reporting have advised that R314bn (40.6%) of the committed investment pledges have been expended,” he said. TimesLIVE 