A case of foot and mouth disease  has been  confirmed on a commercial stud farm in the North West. This comes after an outbreak in Limpopo and KwaZulu-Natal, where new affected locations have been identified, the department of agriculture, land reform and rural development said on Tuesday. The department said North West veterinary services conducted epidemiological investigations after receiving reports and positive laboratory results  confirmed the diagnosis. “The farm and other linked farms have been placed under quarantine while further surveillance in the area is being conducted to determine the extent of the outbreak,” the department said. In Limpopo, the disease was detected in the previously  disease-free zone in the Collins Chabane municipality (Vhembe) earlier in the month. The department  said infection was detected in two locations  and involved cattle in communal grazing areas. “This outbreak is most likely due to spillover from an outbreak in the adjacent foot and mouth disease  protection zone, which was detected in March 2021. “There are permanent movement restrictions  in the protection zone, preventing the free movement of cloven-hoofed livestock into the  disease-free zone. The affected dip-tanks were placed under quarantine and no cloven-hoofed animals were allowed to move from these locations,” the department said. In addition to the outbreak in Limpopo, the outbreak in KZN was continuing and the vaccination campaign had  begun, it said. “Two new affected locations have been identified. One falls just outside the disease management area (DMA) in the Mthonjaneni municipality, while the other falls some distance to the southwest of the DMA, in the uMlalazi municipality (near the Nkandla and Maphumulo municipalities).” The department urged all farmers, livestock owners, members of industry and other stakeholders  to abide by the movement restrictions  in both the Limpopo and KZN  DMAs, as well as the restrictions within the affected areas. “These restrictions are deemed necessary to prevent the further spread of the virus out of the affected areas. “All farmers, livestock owners, members of industry and other stakeholders in the rest of the country are urged to use caution when sourcing cattle. The notion of ‘know what you are buying’ holds true in this instance. Ensure that you know the health of the animals you are investing in and, where possible, get a health attestation from the seller’s veterinarian.” As the disease was transmitted by moving cattle from infected premises, the department  called on owners not to move animals if there was any  suspicion of illness. “Should any suspicious clinical symptoms (salivation, blisters in the mouth, limping or hoof lesions) be seen, it should be reported to the local state veterinarian immediately and such animals must not be moved  in any circumstances.” TimesLIVE