The  late Professor Lungile Pepeta will be awarded an honorary doctorate, along with media personality Noxolo Grootboom  and ANC veteran Sindiso Mfenyana, as the graduation season starts. More than 7,000  graduates are expected to cross the stage at  Nelson Mandela University campuses in April. “NMU is excited to be able to host this flagship event physically and we congratulate all staff and students on their outstanding achievements. “We are honoured to present Prof Pepeta, Ms Grootboom and Mr Mfenyana with honorary doctorates in recognition of their outstanding contribution to society,” NMU spokesperson Zandile Mbabela said. Pepeta will be posthumously awarded a Doctor of Health Sciences (honoris causa) for his contributions as a paediatric cardiologist, medical researcher, academic, activist  and pioneer, particularly in child health care. Born in Bizana,  he enrolled for the MBChB in the faculty of health sciences at the then University of Transkei (now Walter Sisulu University) in 1992. After graduating in 1997, he completed an internship at Mthatha General Hospital and qualified as a paediatrician in 2003, thereafter heading  the paediatrics division at Frontier Hospital  in Komani. Between 2004 and 2008, he served as a specialist paediatrician, full-time lecturer and fellow, sub-specialising in paediatric cardiology at the Chris Hani-Baragwanath Hospital in Johannesburg through its affiliation with the University of the Witwatersrand. After obtaining a certificate in cardiology  through the College of Paediatricians of SA in 2008, Pepeta returned to the Eastern Cape in 2009  as principal specialist and later head of the department of paediatrics and child health at the Port Elizabeth Hospital Complex. He established the city’s first paediatric cardiology unit at Dora Nginza Provincial Hospital, where he  served until the end of 2015, while also lecturing in paediatric cardiology at the complex and at Walter Sisulu University. He introduced non-invasive procedures to cure heart disorders and defects  in  children, and mentored and trained many doctors in  paediatrics. In 2017, Pepeta was appointed executive dean of the faculty of health sciences at Nelson Mandela University, where he served  until his  death in August 2020. His award will be accepted by his wife, Dr Vuyo Pepeta. Grootboom will receive a Doctor of Philosophy (honoris causa) for her contributions to journalism, media, communication and upliftment of the linguistic heritage of SA. Born in Cacadu, she moved to Gauteng in 1981 where she took a course in computers before  becoming a typist at the SABC in 1983. She worked her way up to  production assistant and her love of storytelling and  passion for  isiXhosa  landed her a position as a current affairs producer. After a stint as a stand-in news reader in 1990 impressed the management,  she  became an isiXhosa news anchor. Mfenyana will be awarded Doctor of Philosophy (honoris causa) for his lifelong struggle for liberation,  and fight against corruption and patronage. Born in Bolotwa in 1940, Mfenyana moved to East London as a child. He attended St John’s College in Mthatha, where  he was elected as   ANC Youth League  secretary in matric. In 1957, he enrolled for a BSc at Fort Hare University on a scholarship from the Mthatha Bunga (council of tribal chiefs). He moved to Johannesburg in December 1960 to join the armed struggle and in January 1962 left for military training in the Soviet Union. After his training, he was selected to further his MSc economic studies at the Kiev Economics Institute. In March 1994, Mfenyana was appointed undersecretary to the National Assembly in Cape Town. In June 1997, he was the first black person to  be appointed full secretary to parliament in SA. On leaving parliament, he served as the South African ambassador in Tanzania from 2004 until his retirement in 2010, after which he became a member of the ANC Integrity Commission. NMU’s graduation season  starts at the George campus on Thursday, with three ceremonies  at Eden Place over two days. The Gqeberha campuses will follow with 23 ceremonies from  April 20 to  May 5. HeraldLIVE