Several organisations and charities have created outreach programmes to assist those most affected by the  floods that swept through KwaZulu-Natal this week, with food, blankets, building materials, water and clothing among the donations needed. The ANC joined calls for relief and rebuilding in KwaZulu-Natal after floods caused extensive destruction and killed hundreds of people. Torrential rain and landslides have hit the area since Sunday night, destroying homes and crucial infrastructure and displacing thousands. On Wednesday evening, the office of the MEC of co-operative governance Sipho Hlomuka said: “The latest reports indicate that 306 people have lost their lives as a result of the heavy rains.” Dozens of organisations have pledged to help in the rebuilding and relief efforts. Want to offer your support? Charities and foundations have called for monetary or material donations. Here are  some of the organisations you can donate to: GIFT OF THE GIVERS Gift of the Givers said hot meals, blankets, bottled water, warm clothes, sanitary pads and diapers are the initial requirements for those in low-lying areas who have lost their possessions. Anyone who wants to donate via Gift of the Givers can make a monetary donation to: Bank: Standard Bank Account name: Gift of the Givers Branch code: 057525 Account number: 052137228 Reference: KZN Floods. Please send the deposit slip to donations@giftofthegivers.org for a formal acknowledgment and to request a section 18A tax-deductible certificate. MEALS ON WHEELS Non-profit organisation Meals On Wheels is providing cooked meals to all the camps where the displaced  residents are  sheltered after  the floods, especially the coastal belt that includes eThekwini municipality, iLembe district and parts of the uMgungundlovu and Ugu districts. “MOWCS will further assess the situation and the damages thereof to provide more assistance to the affected communities,” it said. Monetary donations can be made to: Bank: ABSA Account name: Meals on Wheels Community Services SA Account number: 4076236605 Reference: Your Name/Flood relief ISLAM SOUTH AFRICA CHARITY ROBIN HOOD FOUNDATION Co-ordinator of the Robin Hood Foundation, a non-profit organisation based in KwaZulu-Natal, Jackie Psannis, told TimesLIVE  there is a need for non-perishable items (such as rice, sugar beans and maize), clothing and household items. The six drop-off sites for donations are: Monetary donations will be used for rebuilding and relief projects, and can be made using the following banking details, or via the other payment methods on the organisation’s website. Bank: Nedbank Account name: The Robin Hood Foundation Branch code: 164826 Account number: 1648160948 Reference: Your Name/Flood relief HOPE SA THE ANGEL NETWORK The Angel Network NPO, with offices in Durban, is offering relief to affected communities. Among the much-needed items are clean water and food. Donations can be dropped off at any of the following locations: • Gate A at Kings Park Stadium, SA Harvest Warehouse, Jackson Road, Durban; • St Martins Church, 12 Chelsea Drive, Durban north, and; • Gate 3, 3 Far Lane, Mt Edgecombe. Monetary donations will be used to rebuild homes destroyed in the flooding. These can be made using the following banking details, or via the other payment methods on the organisation’s website. Bank: Standard Bank Account name: The Angel Network Durban Branch: 051001 Account Number: 10145040508 Reference: Flood relief FARMERS AID SA DOKIMOS MINISTRIES NPC, Dokimos Ministries International,  with the ABC Forum of Churches is working with churches in several  affected areas to provide food, warm clothing, blankets and other resources for those  left destitute. They also offer a counselling service for those in a state of despair, and have joined rebuild efforts. Monetary contributions  can be sent to: Bank: FNB Account name: Dokimos Ministries International NPC Account Number: 62734534268 Reference: Your name/ KZN relief WE FEED SA PENNY APPEAL SA Penny Appeal SA has asked for minimum donations of R100, as part of its Help for 100 project. LENDING HAND FOUNDATION ITEMBA LETHU DURBAN SA HARVEST NEW SEASON MINISTRIES BRANCHES OF LOVE KLOOF ROUND TABLE TimesLIVE is calling on all organisations  providing relief efforts in KZN to contact us with information on their outreach. 