After exposing a sleeping cop and what residents  claim is shoddy police work at the Algoa Park police station, the Algoa Park Neighbourhood Watch has vowed it will not rest until all of the issues are resolved. On Wednesday, its members  apprehended a 16-year-old boy who they believe was behind a spate of break-ins in the area. The boy was caught with tools he had allegedly stolen from a bakkie Algoa Park Neighbourhood Watch president Mario Zeelie said he had butted heads with the police  on Wednesday when he went to the police station for assistance. “At first the police did not want to open a case because the suspect is a minor. “They suggested that he be released into the custody of his mother instead,” Zeelie claimed. “I told them we could not allow that to happen because the suspect was known for committing plenty of housebreakings and breaking into cars in the area.” According to Zeelie, it was only after he insisted that a case was eventually opened. But police spokesperson Colonel Priscilla Naidu denied this, saying said it was not true that the police had refused to open a case when the  teenager was brought in. She said the police had explained what the procedures entailed when a case was opened against a minor. According to Naidu, police also explained that the complainant — in this case the person whose bakkie was broken into —  had to present himself to the police station to open the case. “When this was done, the suspect was arrested and detained. “After he appeared in the juvenile court, he was released into the custody of his parents, as per the law.” Naidu said a second suspect who was allegedly linked to the case had also been arrested. The suspects were charged with theft and the possession of stolen goods, respectively. Zeelie recently exposed a  woman police officer who was allegedly fast asleep in the charge office while on duty. Residents in Algoa Park are fed-up with what they say is a lack of visible policing, serious crimes not being registered or properly investigated, and a lack of vehicles and manpower. They have voiced their frustrations as crime  continues to wreak havoc in the community. According to residents, numerous meetings with police management to find a solution, and a  petition signed by more than 300 people, have seemingly not made a difference. On Thursday, residents demanded to know what steps had been taken against the sleeping police officer once the  internal investigation was concluded. Aside from confirming that the investigation had been concluded, provincial police would not divulge any further details. Zeelie said it was imperative that the police were transparent with the community on such pertinent issues. “How are we supposed to trust them when they are being so secretive?” he asked. Eastern Cape Community Police Forum treasurer-general Timothy Hendricks said residents had the right to know the outcome  of the investigation. “For all we know she could have just been given a slap on the wrist,” he said. HeraldLIVE