Social development minister Lindiwe Zulu has assured qualifying R350 social relief of distress (SRD) grant beneficiaries  they will receive their payments by June. Zulu, who was tabling her 2022/2023 budget in parliament, said R44bn has been allocated for the  grant which will be paid  to  more than 10-million South Africans every month. “The application channels for the grant for the period  April 2022 to March 2023, as announced by the president, opened on  April 23 2022. By  April 30 2022, in excess of 8.1-million applications had  been received. I assure all qualifying applicants  they will be in receipt of their payments for this iteration of the grant by June,” she said. Zulu said the grant type was using data and digital infrastructures to process applications and conduct verifications. “Our system for checking whether people  deserve this money  is in place, hence we ask them to reapply. “We are also working with the department of economic development and small and medium enterprises because we believe  the next big thing  we must focus on is to empower informal businesses and small and medium enterprises,” she said. With the SA Post Office (Sapo) discontinuing payment of the SRD grant, you can collect your grant from Pick n Pay, Boxer, Shoprite, Checkers and USave stores. Sapo and the SA Social Security Agency of SA (Sassa) have advised those   eligible for the grant to choose this payment option in their applications when applying for the grant. Those who chose to receive their funds at Sapo branches are requested to visit www.srd.sassa.gov.za and select an option to collect the grant from one of the supermarkets mentioned. “Clients who  have uncollected  grants at the Sapo/Postbank can collect at any of the retail outlets,” said Sassa. When going to supermarkets to collect the funds, you must have your ID and the cellphone you registered when applying for the grant because the OTP number will be sent to the registered number. “All applicants for the grant are encouraged to update their details on the system to have the grant paid into their  personal bank account as this is the safest way in which to receive the funds," the agency said. Sassa said it will continue to engage communities and local leadership — traditional leaders and/or councillors — to inform those who receive the grant of their options  to access their funds.