After a few months of  lower Covid-19 infection rates reported in the Eastern Cape, the number of active cases has shown an  upward trajectory. According to the latest statistics supplied by the Eastern Cape department of health, the number of new cases reported in the province stands at 561 as of Wednesday. This  is a sharp increase  compared  with the  119 new cases reported on Tuesday. The number of active Covid-19 cases in the province was 3,912 compared with   3,844 cases the previous day. In Nelson Mandela Bay, unofficial figures indicated  the number of active cases in the city stood at 2,012 on Wednesday,  an increase of 30% week on week. Delays with the testing process and people who are hesitant to  be tested could mean that the actual numbers are much higher. Health department figures show  the metro is still the front-runner when it comes to the number of confirmed cases (122,576) in the province. To date, 4,920 people in the metro have died due to Covid-19 complications. Five of these deaths were recorded in the metro on Tuesday. The metro also took the lead when it came to the number of people  admitted to hospitals in the province. Of the 213 patients  admitted to various hospitals in the province, 128 are in hospitals across the metro. Figures show that seven patients have been admitted to hospitals in the city in the past 24 hours and 84 in the last seven days. A majority of those  admitted are in private hospitals and a total of 14 people are in intensive care units. Provincially, 22 patients are on oxygen, and nine have been ventilated. The current number of inpatient deaths stands at 13,164. The number of people who have been fully vaccinated in the province reached the one-million mark towards the latter part of 2021. It is understood that the vaccination rate in the metro remains stagnant at just over 40% of the population. The metro has been bearing the brunt of infections in the province since the first case was reported in March 2020 during the first wave. HeraldLIVE